I'm not entirely sure I get the distinction there, like in an ideal world we'd have a Dyson web or something, but practically we have to mix all of them, even in my wildest fantasies we won't get rid of oil/coal .. maybe ever or at least any time soon. So we'll always have a mix of renewables, nuclear, and fossil fuels. Considering we want to drop fossil fuels and renewables are currently untenable for all power its ... difficult

1) yeah I think i prob should have elaborated on that, and its def a perspective from the united states. Generally I do believe there will have to be some government "oversight" (more emphasis on the over part of that word than any charitable definitions) for any of this to work. But also I should not discount people as easily as I did in my original statement.
2) I am always deeply skeptical of those figures, because they nearly always leave out so much of the minutia (see bezos's wealth could solve world hunger etc). Especially considering the monumentality of what needs to be done (essentially refactoring the entire global power system) I think there will be many many trillions of dollars of unforeseen costs. I do think its possible heck I _know_ its possible, I'm just very pessimistic lol. Also yes I meant practical funding coming from people.
3) iirc wind has higher EROI than solar (maybe that is considering practical output instead of theoretical output? I'm fairly sure they are within 20 percent?). If we count things that aren't emitting then I _think_ its hydro > nuclear > wind ~ geothermal > solar theoretical > solar practical. Generally I like solar a lot because it can be relatively cheaply and effectively installed on most suburban roofs and I don't really care about aesthetics in this case. But yeah I dislike hydro a lot, there are some passive things that aren't too demanding but dams and tidal generators are hell on or even just outright destroy ecosystems so I dislike them a lot. By highspeed development I meant making things faster, China has proven the concept of prefabed buildings and I think a lot of that tech could be applied to powerplants. By constructing them faster (hence high speed, sorry should have been more clear on that) we reduce time to production.
4) Yes, this is an issue for nuclear power, at one point I read a paper presenting a high variability reactor design by diverting the created steam to slow the reaction somehow (several years ago now), but it wasn't ideal. Its possible but needs more research put into it, which is probably me being optimistic about how fast that can be developed though. Also I'm fairly sure that liquid metal is not the correct term for that kind of battery but it is what it sounds like you melt metal and then it re-solidifies. And yeah hydro storage especially is something i haven't looked into enough but am very very deeply hoping it doesn't have the same problems as typical hydro power does... And I very much need to look into hydrogen stuff then, tbh I think i must be thinking of a completely separate thing from what you are describing because last I looked into it, it was pretty much dismissed as unusable, but from the way you talk about it, it seems very interesting to say the least.
5) yeah it is really interesting its probably where i'm most optimistic about the entire thing.
6) I thought this was essentially a repeat of 1 and yeah when you put it like that I think absolutely no. Maybe I'm overgeneralizing but i think in most people's minds they are distinct at this point. Though yes the fossil fuel industry is very apt at manipulating the public so who knows...

I agree that's also fairly possible. It scares me a lot how no one seems to be talking about what the world will look like in 2050. but hey maybe at that point we will recognise it as a credible threat and actually start doing shit instead of well not...